Add Vue quickstart (#2891)
meilisearch/documentation: guides/front_end/vue_quick_start.mdx

---
title: Vue3 quick start — Meilisearch documentation
description: Integrate a search-as-you-type experience into your Vue app.
---

# Vue3 quick start

## 1. Create a Vue application

> 

Reviewer: Perhaps a quick, one-sentence description of what `npm create` will do? 

e.g. "Run the `npm create` tool to install base deps and create your app folder structure"

```bash
npm create vue@latest my-app
```

## 2. Install the library of search components

Navigate to your Vue app and install `vue-instantsearch`, `@meilisearch/instant-meilisearch`, and `instantsearch.css`.

```bash
npm install vue-instantsearch @meilisearch/instant-meilisearch instantsearch.css
```

- [Vue InstantSearch](https://github.com/algolia/instantsearch/): front-end tools to customize your search environment
- [instant-meilisearch](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-js-plugins/tree/main/packages/instant-meilisearch): Meilisearch client to connect with Vue InstantSearch
- [instantsearch.css](https://github.com/algolia/instantsearch/tree/master/packages/instantsearch.css) (optional): CSS library to add basic styles to the search components

## 3. Add InstantSearch

Include InstantSearch into `main.js` to include the Vue InstantSearch library.

```js
import { createApp } from 'vue';
import App from './App.vue';
import InstantSearch from 'vue-instantsearch/vue3/es';

const app = createApp(App);
app.use(InstantSearch);
app.mount('#app');
```

## 4. Initialize the search client

> Use the following URL and API key to connect to a Meilisearch instance which contains data from Steam video games. Add the code below to the `App.vue` file.

Reviewer: I think this could benefit from a minor rewrite. We say the "following URL and API key", but these only appear almost at the end of the code sample.

Perhaps a simple way of improving the flow here is to move the info about the URL and key beneath the code sample, as a minor clarification?

Reviewer: Could even be a capsule "hey, FYI, these URL and key point to a public instance etc"

  <ais-search-box />
    <ais-hits>
      <template v-slot:item="{ item }">
	  <div>
	    <img :src="item.image" align="left" :alt="item.name"/>
          <h2>{{ item.name }}</h2>
	    <p> {{ item.description }}</p>
	  </div>
      </template>
    </ais-hits>
  </ais-instant-search>
</template>

<script>
import { instantMeiliSearch } from "@meilisearch/instant-meilisearch";
import "instantsearch.css/themes/satellite-min.css";

export default {
data() {
    return {
    searchClient: instantMeiliSearch(
        'https://ms-adf78ae33284-106.lon.meilisearch.io',
        'a63da4928426f12639e19d62886f621130f3fa9ff3c7534c5d179f0f51c4f303',
    ).searchClient,
    };
},
};
</script>
```

Use the slot directive to customize how each search result is rendered.

<Capsule intent="tip">
Use the following CSS classes to add custom styles to your components:
`.ais-InstantSearch`, `.ais-SearchBox`, `.ais-InfiniteHits-list`, `.ais-InfiniteHits-item`
</Capsule>

## 6.Start the app and search as you type

Start the app by running:

```bash
npm run dev
```

Now open your browser, navigate to your Vue app URL (e.g., `localhost:5173`), and start searching.

> ![Vue app search UI with a search bar at the top and search results for four video games](/assets/images/react_quick_start/react-qs-search-ui.png)

Reviewer: I made a similar comment in another PR. Whenever possible (which is not always), it's better to avoid mentioning unimportant info that might easily change with a new layout.

```suggestion
![Vue app search UI with a search bar at the top and search results a few video games](/assets/images/react_quick_start/react-qs-search-ui.png)
```
